Switched 802.3 LANS

1. LAN switch is a device with multiple inputs and outputs to interconnect multiple numbers of hosts and computing terminals


2. LAN switch prevents data packet collision, and maximizes transmission speed as well as bandwidth allocation.


The core job of a switch is to take packets that arrive on an input and forward (or switch) them to the right output so that they will reach their appropriate destination.

3. The heart of a LAN switch is a high-speed backplane and room for typically 4-32 plug in line cards, each containing one to eight connectors

4. Further each connector has a 10 Base-T twisted pair connection to a single host computer

5. The plug-in card receives the frame and check for the destination address

6.Collision prevention: There are two types of collision prevention; they are local on-card LAN and buffer-input port card.

http://www.eeherald.com/section/design-guide/ieee802_p2.html


7.In case of local on-card LAN, collision are detected and handled like any other CSMA/DC network- with retransmission using the binary backoff algorithm

8. Where as in buffer-input port card, the incoming frame-data are stored in RAM. Once a frame is completely received the card can then check to see if the frame is destines for another port on the same card, or for a distant port.



802.4

IEEE802.4: Token bus


In this system, the nodes are physically connected as a bus, but logically form a ring with tokens passed around to determine the turns for sending

A 802.4 frame has the following fields:
Preamble: The Preamble is for synchronizing the receiver's clock.

Starting Delimiter (SD) and End Delimiter (ED): The SD and ED fields are used to mark frame boundaries. Both contain analog encoding of symbols other than 1 or 0 



Frame Control (FC): FC is used to distinguish data frames from control frames. Data frames carries the frame's priority as well as a bit which the destination can set as an acknowledgement.


Destination and Source Address: The Destination and Source address fields may be of 2 bytes (for a local address) or 6 bytes (for a global address

Data: This is the actual data and it is of 8182 bytes when 2 byte addresses are used and 8174 bytes for 6 byte addresses.
Checksum: A 4-byte checksum of the data for error detection.
